Dubbed the Magnificent Seven stocks, Apple, Microsoft, Google parent Alphabet, Amazon, Nvidia, Meta Platforms and Tesla lived up to their name in 2023 with big gains. The Magnificent Seven stocks are among the best stocks to buy and watch in the stock market today.

Due to their outsized market capitalizations, Magnificent Seven stocks hold a disproportionate influence on the market-cap weighted Nasdaq composite and S&P 500 indexes.

For an in-depth look at this issue, check out IBD's page on the Magnificent Seven weightings, market capitalizations and the companies' latest news stories.

Amazon (AMZN) is sharply out of buy range above a cup base's 145.86 buy point, as shares rose 1.1% Wednesday. Last week, Amazon reported quarterly results, beating expectations for both earnings and revenue. Through its Amazon Bedrock platform, the e-commerce and cloud giant provides a fully managed service offering a choice of high-performing foundation models (FMs) from leading AI companies like AI21 Labs, Anthropic, Cohere, Meta and Stability AI. Google parent Alphabet (GOOGL) is moving out of buy range above a 139.42 buy point in a cup with handle amid a recent rebound. Google stock gained 0.1% Wednesday. On Jan. 30, Alphabet reported fourth-quarter earnings and revenue that topped analyst estimates. But shares tumbled as the search giant's core advertising business slightly missed views. Google debuted its Gemini AI model on Dec. 6. However, the demo video displaying the AI's capabilities turned out to be edited, Bloomberg reported. Google admitted the demo was created using still image frames from the footage with additional prompts via text, as well as edited to make Gemini response times appear quicker. Among the Magnificent Seven stocks, Nvidia (NVDA) was the top performer, with a scorching 235% year-to-date return through Dec. 15. The AI giant is extended past a new flat base's 505.48 buy point after a Jan. 8 breakout move. Nvidia stock rallied 1.5% Wednesday, just shy of record highs. NVDA is an IBD Leaderboard stock. On Nov. 28, the company expanded its push into AI, unveiling business intelligence for chatbots, copilots and summarization tools with its enterprise-grade generative AI microservice. NeMo Retriever — a new offering in the Nvidia NeMo family of frameworks and tools for generative AI models — helps organizations enhance their generative AI applications. NeMo Retriever helps generative AI applications provide more accurate responses through Nvidia-optimized algorithms. Tesla (TSLA) moved up 2% Wednesday, still near its lowest level since May 2023. On Jan. 24, the electric-vehicle giant said that earnings fell 40% to 71 cents per share while revenue totaled $25.17 billion, up 3.5% vs. the year-ago period. Wall Street expected earnings of 73 cents a share on revenue of $25.62 billion. For 2023, Tesla earnings fell 23% to $3.12 a share while revenue increased 19% to $96.77 billion vs. estimates of $3.05 on sales of $97.5 billion.